[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Patricia Albere has
been helping people get out
of their own way for
over three decades.
At age 23, she was facilitating
groups for a new movement
under Werner Erhard,
that was later
to be known as EST.
What struck her
so deeply during
those developing years
was how beautiful life can be
if we simply commit to sharing
the truth moment by moment.
But for most people, truth has
consequences that they believe
outweigh living authentically.
In this interview, Patricia
explains that we literally
have nothing of genuine value
to lose if we commit to truth,
which always gives way to love.
Patricia, I think
this is something
that almost everybody
watching in our audience here
can relate to.
And that is to go to a higher
level in our relationships
and communications
with each other.
The old ways, and the
will, and the ego,
and the status
positions that people
have been working from
throughout history, really,
are dying away.
They're not proving to
be satisfying anymore.
And you are presenting
something to the world
called evolutionary
relationships, which
I think is fabulous.
But also, this would mean
evolutionary communication,
it seems to me.
>> Yeah, definitely.
>> Well, so let's start
out, first of all,
talking about personal
relationships, one on one.
And then we'll expand it
out to the business world.
But what is your definition of
an evolutionary relationship?
>> OK.
First of all, evolutionary
and relationship
actually is, in a way, the
same thing, believe it or not.
So to evolve means to be going
to higher and higher and higher
levels.
I mean, that's what
evolution does.
And evolving in the world
of time, form, and distance
is to be in relationship.
So if you are evolving,
if you are awakening
into the absolute,
into the place that's
timeless and formless and
you're at one with the universe,
there's no relationship.
There's no beloved.
So the world is really God's
opportunity to create relating.
All of a sudden,
there's the beloved.
There's you and me.
So this higher form
has to do with,
first of all, that it's not just
about the normal things that
are not wrong.
You transcend and
include in evolution.
So you include living
together if it's
a personal relationship.
Who's going to take
out the garbage?
Having children, going to
the movies, all the things
that we enjoy as
humans doing together.
But the purpose of it is
from a place of awakening.
It's from a place
of what's possible,
like if you and I could be on
the edge of where we don't know
what could happen in this
energy and space between us,
instead of we're
comfortably in this way
of being with one another.
You do this.
I do that.
We have sex, we--
not you and I, but you know--
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> --partnership.
>> Everything is done
by rote, by habit, even,
and up until now, pretty much.
>> Absolutely.
>> And this is really-- this
almost requires a breaking down
of roles, as they've
been traditionally viewed
in a certain way, doesn't it?
>> Well, it does.
You can't stop there.
So it's not a problem of having
certain ways that we relate,
but that's not really
what we're trafficking in.
That's a stability.
That's something
that we're used to.
That's something where
we know who's doing what.
But then the real place
that we're relating in
is that we're discovering
what happens between us when
you're not fixated there.
And I'm not fixated here
in a particular way.
I'm not coming from the past.
And you don't look like my
father and all the things
that the ego comes
up with, which
is all some fixed way of being.
So there are methods that we
use to get people to the place
where you can actually
start to not know
what can actually happen
in the exchange between us.
>> Right.
And that's scary
for a lot of people.
>> Yeah, that's true.
>> A lot of people really want
to be able to control outcomes
and have a pretty good idea of
where things are going so that
they can engineer
it that direction.
I mean, you work
with a lot of people.
I was looking at
your press materials.
You've worked with
over 150,000 people.
That's a long career.
A lot of people.
>> A lot of people.
>> And would you say--
I mean, obviously,
they're working with you,
because they want to
do this breakthrough.
But how would you
characterize this stuckness
that we have in needing
to control an outcome
or have an expected outcome and
breaking our addiction to that?
>> Well, I think
developmentally,
work is appropriate.
A lot of your shows,
a lot of your work
speaks to people on the edge.
So I think a lot
of your audience
are people that are not just the
normal people that are watching
whatever on television.
I mean, they just--
>> Reruns of Archie Bunker.
>> Yeah.
No, that's not where they are.
So this is a developmental--
this isn't for everybody.
It really isn't.
I mean, I think that in
Maslow's hierarchy of needs,
there are certain places
where you need to get to.
Actualization is
at the top where
you start to feel
this pressure, and you
start to feel this feeling
of like, I don't know why.
My life is pretty OK.
And things are good, but
I want to express myself.
I want something more.
And I don't know why
>> You want to crawl
out of the box.
>> I want something.
What is it?
And that's when this
evolutionary force, this
starts to move into you.
And then it naturally goes, huh!
And then, what
can I do with you?
Do you know what I mean?
It isn't just me by myself.
It almost always takes me into
an expression in the world
and in between.
What can happen between us?
What can happen?
>> Yeah, once you
open up those doors,
then you want to be able to walk
through them and express them
in a myriad number
of ways, right?
>> Right.
And one of them is with
another, and it's not just
with any other.
It's with somebody else who
has that same, I don't know.
What could we do?
What could we create together?
Where could love go?
Where could our
psychic abilities go?
Where could these
multi-dimensional capacities
that we've heard
human beings have--
where are they?
And how could we
develop those things?
It goes beyond survival.
It goes beyond
what's predictable.
It goes beyond what
you can count on.
It's actually interested in--
what's it called?
I mean, I find in the work
that we do in the online stuff
and in the live
stuff, you're building
a rocket that can pull away
from the gravity of the Earth.
And there's a gravity.
>> It's oriented
toward expansion,
just expansion and growth.
Yeah, yeah.
>> And once you get-- and
the gravity is our survival
in relationship, our basic--
like, I need you.
I need to belong.
Are you going to call me?
Do you like me?
Did I say it right?
I mean, all that
stuff is just so--
>> All those excruciatingly--
>> --exhausting.
>> --painful, exhausting things.
>> Totally.
And there's a place where you
don't have to resolve all that.
I think that's very human.
And what are you going to do?
But when we're
together and you start
to open up this other
possibility, that falls away.
There's a place of
beingness that--
It isn't there.
And everyone has
experienced that.
Anybody who's ever been
in a group situation
or related to someone who
really saw them, who really was
safe and really saw
them in some deeper way
where all your
insecurity falls way.
And then all of a
sudden, you feel
like you're called to play.
All of a sudden, you're like,
somebody wants me to play.
>> It's like we spend all this
time as we mature in life,
throwing up more or putting
on more clothing, so to speak,
to essentially groom our
image in the world so that
we're perceived
in a certain way,
a lot of it egoic structures.
And what you're saying is
when we get to the point
where that's just not working--
it's limited, it's
unsatisfying--
you want to start stripping
off all that clothing
and be seen for
who you truly are.
Now, that brings me
to something else.
Your background--
before you created
this area of your work,
this new area, is you
were 12 years with
Werner Erhard, which was
EST, Landmark, and so forth.
And everybody that
knows about it, probably
has a perception of
what Landmark is.
A lot of people
have done Landmark.
A lot of people say,
I don't want to.
I don't want to be part of it.
But for you, just
digging down here,
what is it that having such a
deep involvement with Landmark
brought to your level of
your personal evolution?
>> I think a couple things.
One was I love being where
things are starting, OK?
So I have a Forrest Gump type.
I wander into where
something has just started.
So Werner in 1971--
it was before EST. It
was way before Landmark.
I left, but Landmark.
So at the beginning of something
when it's just beginning,
there is an emergent quality
that's really exciting,
which is the same as
what I'm teaching now.
This is where I think
consciousness is emerging,
is on this collective,
relational level, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So back then,
personal transformation.
And when you would say
transformation to people,
people would go
like, a butterfly?
I mean, nobody had a clue.
>> It wasn't part
of our vocabulary.
>> If you knew about Esalen.
And then some people
went to India.
But other than that, nothing
was going on in this country.
I mean, really.
It was a wasteland.
And now, there's
millions of people
teaching a million things.
So the personal transformation
that was elemental in that
was so exciting.
And we had all the
important people
on the planet wanting to be
a part of what we were doing.
I mean, everybody
was a part of it.
And I was so young.
And I was so empowered.
I mean, I didn't even understand
that being a 23-year-old,
that I shouldn't have been
doing what I was doing.
And he didn't care.
Because basically, if
you produced results
and if you were
effective with people,
you were given that chance.
So I was leading
groups back then.
And I think the opportunity
to be with groups of people
and to be a part of
a group of people
that were in an emergent state
was really the beginning.
And we were all
these pioneering,
wild, committed, devoted
bhakti types, right?
>> Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>> That we had to be effective.
So we were being really
trained to be very effective.
That shaped me enormously.
And it also gave me a chance.
How many people do you know
that teach or that are coaches?
Or even at Britain
multi-best-selling books,
et cetera, et
cetera, have worked
with thousands and thousands
of people in groups in depth.
That's not just like a talk.
I mean, actually taking
people from point A to point--
>> Well, this stripping down--
>> --Z.
>> --process we were talking
about, to be stripped down,
to be seen for
who you truly are,
you must have facilitated
thousands upon--
>> Totally.
>> --thousands of those.
So it was such a grace.
I mean, such a gift
and to be with him.
I mean, he was--
I mean, we were with--
I mean, so many people--
Lynne Twist.
I mean, so many
people were a part
of that at the
beginning that are still
making a difference, that are
still enormously impacting
the world with The
Hunger Project,
and Breakthrough Foundation,
and various things.
So whatever people
thought about--
they couldn't go
to the bathroom.
Or I don't know what the media
took on, which was bizarre.
But the impact culturally
on the planet is huge.
And so to be a part of that in
the beginning was, I guess--
I mean, that's who I am.
>> Yeah, well, it makes sense.
>> That's who I am.
>> You were in such
formative years.
I mean, to have that--
>> 18 to 30.
>> To discover that power inside
yourself at those ages between
18 and 30, as you say, was huge.
>> Huge.
>> So once you learned that
vulnerable is good and you
started--
>> Truth is good.
>> And truth is good.
And you started exploring
to higher levels.
That brings us up to age 30.
How did you start
applying it after that?
Because this has been an
evolutionary journey for you.
>> Totally.
Totally.
I've been driven in this way.
Well, first the truth.
For me, truth and
intimacy are the same.
When you get very close,
if you care deeply
about being really
close to what's there,
then you're intimate.
And that's the only kind
of intimacy that's valid.
>> And describe-- give us
your definition of intimacy.
Because it sounds like
it's a much broader--
it doesn't just mean
a sexual relationship.
>> Oh, yeah.
Not at all.
>> Let's talk about what
intimacy in that context really
means.
>> Intimacy means this attuned--
that you've developed your
capacity and your love.
And you've gotten past
a lot of the fear.
Or you're willing
to go past the fear
each time of getting so close
to what's real, what's true.
On every level, what do
you feel in your body?
What do you feel in your heart?
What are you
sensing is happening
in the field, your psychic
sense, your intuitive
sense of what the truth is?
And that to me is complete
intimacy with the moment,
with yourself, and
with existence.
So if I'm there, and I'm willing
to totally be there with you,
and you're there with
me, we're there with--
it's almost awe.
You're listening for and
feeling into what's really here
and even if it's a
moment of flatness.
Maybe you're in
love with somebody,
and you feel this dead zone.
But you're not afraid of that.
You go, wow, we're
in a dead zone.
What's that?
What does it feel like?
What does it look like?
And being curious and open.
Somehow when you're
intimate in that way,
this evolutionary force
keeps moving things along.
And you don't have
to manipulate.
I don't have to decide
where we need to go,
or what it means, or
all the other nonsense
that our egos do.
So for me, that's intimacy.
And that's actually one of
the key things that I teach,
which is the source of a simple
way to allow life to move.
Otherwise, you have to
have the five steps to this
and the three techniques for--
I mean, it's exhausting.
I can't-- I mean, I've
learned a million things.
And it's too complicated.
It's not at the core of how we
could actually navigate life
together.
>> And what you're saying
makes perfect sense.
You listen.
You think, well, of course,
just to speak from the heart
and be absolutely aware
and honest in the moment,
yet people have fears.
>> Terrified.
>> They're afraid of losing
whatever it is they have.
They're afraid of
whatever security
they may have built in
a relationship or even
among friends or co-workers,
that if they're honest,
they're going to lose that
position and everything that
comes with it.
>> It's true.
Absolutely, you're right.
And there's a point
of development.
David Hawkins, who I'm sure
you're probably aware of,
well, one of his
best book, I think,
is "Transcending the
Levels of Consciousness."
And what he speaks about
is that there's a--
he does the muscle
testing, which people
have various relationship
to, whether they believe that
or not.
>> Right, the calibration.
>> It doesn't matter to me--
is you can feel it.
When you're around
certain people,
you feel uplifted
during and after.
And there are other people--
you're just exhausted.
You're just exhausted.
You're just you're
finished being with them.
And you're just
like, oh, my God.
I have to recover.
So what he says is that 200
is the place where above that,
you're actually energized.
And below that, if
people are identified
with certain emotional states
as a core way of being.
>> And this is on a
scale of 0 to 1,000.
>> Right.
So 1,000 is Christ
Consciousness.
>> Yeah, right.
So 200 isn't--
I mean, it's not an
overwhelming burden
in terms of reaching that level.
>> Yeah.
You think, right?
Yeah, you think.
>> It's just basically
not draining you.
>> So 200--
interestingly enough,
pride is just under 200.
And pride is something we
all have to pay attention to,
which is where you identify
with your self-image.
You identify with,
I already know that.
And I'm familiar with that.
And I'm this.
And I'm that.
And I know.
And I know, I know, I
know, I know, right?
Which is we're not a
million miles from that.
So it's very easy to go there--
>> Oh, yeah.
Yeah, sure.
>> --on any level.
You can be spiritually
identified with that, just as
easy as anything else.
>> Well, I mean, you can even
transcend that level with one
person and then drop right
back into that with another,
depending on whether they
trigger certain things in you.
>> Yeah, so pride
is the "I know."
>> And that's around 150 to 200.
>> And you're identified
with your self-image.
And you're identified
with, this is who I am.
I've spent my whole life.
And this is what I've done.
And this is what I know.
And this is what I've learned.
>> But you're putting yourself--
>> And these are the
books I've written.
And this is what I branded
and all the rest of it, right?
>> But you're creating
your little box.
>> Totally.
But you're under 200.
You're not open.
Where you move up is courage.
And courage is always courage.
So courage is always
courage to you or to me.
Let's say we've expanded, and
done things, and been scared,
and did it a million times.
It's still courage.
So no matter where
you are, you have
to actually still have courage.
>> That's true.
>> You're never done with that.
And then that takes you
into the higher levels.
Underneath 200-- you
don't tell the truth.
You're not interested
in the truth.
You're manipulating for gain.
You're manipulating for
gain and survival, period.
So you aren't interested.
And you won't.
And anybody who's operating
from pride and below into fear
states, and anger, and other
things that are despair,
et cetera, you cannot count on
that person to be in the truth.
Because they're too scared.
They're too much in survival.
But the big news is,
you actually have to.
To go to the higher levels, to
have what I'm talking about,
one of the prices that needs
to be paid continuously
is you need to learn how
to really be in the truth
and to have the
courage to do that.
And there's no way around it.
There's no easy fix.
So like I said, this
isn't for everybody.
Because a lot of people go, I
don't want to pay that price.
I want to-- I need to
manipulate my life.
Because if I don't,
what would happen?
>> And manipulate others.
And it can result in such an
incredible deadening effect.
>> Dead, but it looks
"like it's safe."
I mean, when I
work with people--
and I'm very, very supportive,
but also very challenging.
I'm from New York,
so just a certain--
I have permission
to be that way.
And what do you got to lose?
If you really look at
most people's lives
and they're going, no, I can't.
You're like, really?
I mean, is it that amazing?
I mean, do you really have
such an extraordinary life,
holding onto everything?
You got to be kidding.
>> Do you see variances
with the sexes?
For example, would you find
that a woman's need to control
might be more security oriented?
Well, it certainly,
probably more
in the past than the
current generations
where a man's need
to control might
come from a different area?
Can you look at it via gender?
>> It's different.
One of the things
that I'm teaching
in the course about
evolutionary relationships
is that there are survival
instincts, that we have
different ones that are strong.
And so where you
control is which
instinct is the strongest.
And I'm actually going to do
some teaching around that.
It's a long conversation.
But basically, all
animals, which includes us,
we have self-preservation
as an instinct
so that would be being safe,
and having money, and having
a home and the right clothes.
>> And right now, seems
like that's a big one.
>> Well, self-preservation
is strong in some people.
>> I see.
>> The social instinct
is stronger in others,
so their sense of belonging,
and how they're seen,
and whether or not they
are the important one,
and whether they're
connected to their families.
And they're on Facebook.
And there's a certain
survival around
their social connections.
That's more--
>> Yeah, it makes sense.
>> --core.
They have to have that.
The self-preservation part--
they cannot have insurance.
They can forget to eat.
They not as strong.
>> But you need to have
your friendship intact.
>> Absolutely.
That's core.
But it's survival.
I mean, it's not
higher or better.
It's just survival.
And then the other type
is the sexual instinct.
And the sexual instinct
isn't sex as much
as it is an intimacy
intensity and chemistry.
And so if things aren't
exciting or inspiring,
you just can't stand it.
You'll leave security.
You'll leave.
You don't care what other
people think as long as you have
this intensity in your life.
And that's core.
>> Now, when you
work with people,
are you helping them identify
which of those values is
their strongest value?
>> Absolutely.
Yeah.
>> And then, obviously, you
must rewind with them where
that's become dysfunctional and
essentially falling under that
200 threshold for--
on some level,
they're on survival.
>> They will sell out for that.
Yeah.
>> They'll sell out for that?
>> Yeah, it's complicated.
I mean, like most
things that are real
and where you have
some lasting change
is there's different
elements that
need to be addressed in order
to get the rocket ship up,
off the Earth.
So one of them is this.
Because those survival
things-- if you think about it
in a monastery, they
take away those things
so that you have the
energy to have lift-off.
>> Absolutely.
>> So you wear the same thing.
You eat the same stuff.
You have a little room.
You don't get to
do social talking.
And you're definitely
not having sex.
>> Now, having said that--
>> So you have energy
for other things.
>> And you're not worrying about
where your next meal is coming
from.
>> Right.
Totally.
>> And you have a
bed to sleep in.
>> Absolutely.
>> All the basics are covered.
>> So you're released from a
certain amount of obsessing
over those things, which those
of us that are secular that are
in the world--
we get lost in those things.
>> Sure.
>> Martha Stewart would be like
the ultimate self-preservation,
how to do everything more and
more perfectly and just being
completely lost in that.
So people control in a place
that they are the most gripped.
And you have to
poke at that and get
people to start to look
so that they can have
some energy for something else.
>> Yes.
OK.
Now, another thing that happened
in your life, as I recall,
was about the age of 33 or so.
You fell very deeply
in love with someone.
And I start to say sadly.
But the way it went
was that he wasn't
in your life for
a very long time.
Five years or so?
>> We were together four years--
>> Four years?
>> --and then he died.
>> Yes.
But this took you to an entirely
new level of depth and inquiry.
Can you talk about
what happened there--
>> Yeah.
Yeah, it was profound.
>> --and what that brought to
you and your understanding that
you're sharing with others?
>> Thanks.
After EST and all the work
there, then having my son,
which is, as you know, a
whole journey in itself.
>> Yes, it is.
>> A whole love
affair in itself.
>> It is.
>> A whole newness.
>> Your son and my son are
only months apart in age.
>> Yeah.
Then I met Peter.
And Peter was a mystic, so he's
deeply spiritual, completely,
and then incredibly
handsome and sexy
and just had that whole
energy of falling in love,
but it was bigger than that.
Given who I was and given
who he was when we met,
we weren't two normal people
falling in love at all.
>> You had both done a lot
of work already on yourself.
>> And he was so--
he had been to India.
And he was just--
I mean, he wouldn't--
he walked meditatively.
I mean, I'd be like,
what are you doing?
And he would just be--
he just was so deep
and so present.
It was scary.
I was like, wow--
>> But was that an attractive--?
>> --who are you?
>> Were you attracted to that
because there was something you
knew was really
going to push you?
>> Yeah, I just--
I didn't even know what it was.
I was just very fascinated.
And we fell in love.
And we started-- because of
the nature of our commitment,
we're both very--
was it passionate about the
opening of what's possible,
what's possible,
what's possible?
We loved going into the unknown.
And it was incredible to be met
there, to have somebody else
who wanted to play like that.
Because that's rare.
Almost nobody-- everybody
is a speed bump.
Most people are like, let's
just go this fast and not this.
So I was grateful
that he was like that.
So what happened was
I discovered with him.
Besides having this
extraordinary experience
of non-stop, it
just kept opening.
We were shown.
We were taken.
Because we just--
every day we were like,
OK, now, it's possible.
Now, it's possible.
And we weren't trying to
control the relationship.
And we were staying in
that really intimate place
of what's real right now.
>> And what's real right now
might not look like it did
a few months before.
>> It kept changing.
But the depth.
And then I felt it.
I felt us to have lift-off.
At one point, we worked
through a certain amount
of our own fears and,
oh, my God and all that.
And stuff started to happen
that was off the charts.
We were awakening.
We were having a spiritual
awakening together.
So it was happening
simultaneously.
We were in the same
states together.
There was no separation.
I mean, I would go,
do you feel that?
And he'd go, yeah.
And then we'd spend the
entire day in some place,
like we were wandering.
It was like we were on
drugs, but we weren't,
which was extraordinary.
And then something
else would happen.
And something else would happen.
So I found that there was
a way we were oriented,
that we were turned towards
life in a certain way
towards each other
that was allowing
for the newness of what could
happen with love, and with joy,
and ecstasy, and creativity.
And I felt like, if there is
a God, he was having a blast.
I mean, it was just like, wow,
we've got these two people.
And they're open.
And they're not in the way.
What are we going to do?
It's like, we can have something
really happen with these guys.
And I felt we were taken
places that people had never
been before.
It didn't feel-- it
felt like new territory.
And I felt the blessing.
I felt we were actually--
we were giving something,
just in the pure beauty
and joy of where we were.
>> Of being so spontaneously
open to creation.
>> Two different dimensions
of evolution and love
and profundity, that I feel that
the creation wanted to see what
could happen.
But mostly, human beings
are never available.
We're just so busy
with stupid stuff.
>> Isn't that sad?
>> It is.
>> Especially since you've
been there all the way.
>> And over time.
It wasn't a moment.
I mean, it was we sustained a
level that kept going places.
And so--
>> And see, that's
the interesting part.
Because in fact, you
mentioned something earlier.
You were talking
about the beginning
of EST. When things are fresh
and new, you stumble into them.
And I just interviewed a
man named Jonathan Schooler.
And he is a scientist who is--
there's something
he's been documenting
in his research of late
called the decline effect.
And it's interesting.
Because it sparked
that remembrance
of that conversation with him
and me when you said that.
Because it has to do
with something happens
in the newness of a moment
that cannot be replicated.
And this is how-- he
was doing other research
and found out as they kept
replicating the experiment,
they kept getting
a reduced effect.
>> Totally.
>> And this is true of drugs.
It's true of a lot of things.
>> Wow.
>> And so they're trying to come
to the point of understanding
what fundamental thing is at
play that creates this decline
effect?
Now, you and I could have a
whole different conversation
about that, that has--
>> Interesting.
>> --little to do with
classic science, anyway.
And the reason I bring
it up is because what
it sounds like is you--
and what was your
husband's name?
>> We weren't married.
>> Your relation to--
>> Peter.
>> Your love's name.
Peter.
Right.
You and Peter-- it sounds like
you were able, in the moment,
to always have
new moments by not
attaching to these identities
of the past moment.
And so you're--
>> And that's part
of what I'm teaching.
>> You didn't have
that decline effect,
which almost every relationship,
friendship, otherwise--
it doesn't matter--
has this decline effect.
Because you get
stuck in these roles.
And you never really
go anywhere beyond.
>> And you reify.
Reify means you mentally start
making constructs around it
so that you go-- so
you can understand it.
Or, I mean, that
there are tendencies
that most spiritual
teachers understand, too,
with certain experiences.
As soon as people
have had a satori,
they can't get there
for another 10 years,
because they reify it.
>> Yes.
>> And they attach to it.
And they do all kinds of stuff.
>> I got there
this way last time.
I mean, I'll go again.
>> Absolutely.
Yeah.
>> And then we seem to be--
there's something in human
nature that has this little fear
at the base that seems to drive
us toward that behavior.
So how do you work
with people that--
how, for example,
would you help them
blast past that in
an intimate situation
where they just need--
there's fear on both sides,
because they don't want
to let go of that core thing.
>> Well, I mean, the secret
we had, which was so simple,
which is what we
spoke of before,
was there are 10 different
dimensions of mutuality,
which is part of what I
teach, which is different,
the ways we were oriented, OK?
Which you're not--
it's simple, but it's
hard to get yourself aligned
in a different way as a human
being.
But one of them is this
love for the truth.
So let's say he was afraid, and
I was afraid at some moment.
Or he was just afraid.
If we are staying intimate,
if our primary commitment,
no matter what, is to
stay real, and we're not--
>> To stay in truth.
>> We've committed to that.
It's not an option
to go, well, I
don't really want
to say anything,
because I will disturb him.
And then what'll that
do to the relationship?
And all the stuff that
people come up with.
So the moment
something is happening,
he would then
track that with me.
He'd say, yeah,
I'm feeling fear.
I mean, I remember
a stupid example.
We were in the grocery
store in New York.
And we were really
happy before we went in.
We were shopping.
And he's German.
He was German.
And all of a sudden,
his energy changed.
We got to the cash
register and checked out.
And I thought, ooh.
I mean, his energy shut down.
And then we got back
out in the street.
And I said, well,
so what happened?
And he goes, there was
this woman on the line.
And he goes, you dress
so much like an American.
And he said, I
started judging you.
Because he could tell
she was European.
She had a different way of
putting things together.
And then all of a sudden,
it popped open again.
Now, this is stupid.
I mean, it was a
silly little thing.
But it was so--
the whole evening would have
gone in a different direction
that one moment.
Because we were so close.
>> And this happens to
all of us all day long.
>> All the time.
>> This is always going on.
And it's shut down
more and more.
No, don't say that.
No, don't rock the boat.
But you're right, just to
acknowledge something that is--
>> Yeah, and it
didn't mean anything.
>> --healing.
>> I mean, then we both laughed.
I said, you're right.
I do dress like an American.
What are you going to do?
He just laughed, and picked me
up, and kissed me or something.
It's just like, OK.
>> Yeah, it was his own judgment
that was shutting him down.
>> Yeah, he felt bad.
He felt bad that he
likes that better.
So the tracking, the learning.
First of all, how do you
really get deep enough
to feel into the reality
of the moment, all of it?
Because most the time,
you're so disconnected,
you don't even know that
you're having a judgment.
It happens in a split
second, and it's gone.
So learning together that
you want to learn that skill
and that that will actually
be the lifeline of aliveness
and the newness actually
happened through that.
>> And it has to also--
>> It's so simple.
>> --require a pretty high
self-esteem and degree
of self-esteem.
If you feel that you
don't have enough value
in a given relationship
to bring to the table
that truth is going to
knock you out of that game--
>> That knock you
out of the game.
Right.
>> --which a lot of
people feel that way.
>> Well, it can't--
it's an egoless relationship.
So what you have
to be interested in
is whatever identities
you've attached yourself to,
that you actually want
the truth and the love
to take those apart.
Because that's not
who you are, anyway.
And there's no
security in an ego.
You will never be
safe and secure.
You will never feel
like, OK, I'm good.
It's always anxiety ridden.
So why not find out?
Why not take those
things apart together so
that you can actually
connect in a place that
really is for real?
>> Yeah.
And part of what--
and now, I don't
know if this is part of the
10 dimensions of relationship
you were talking about.
But I noticed-- I was
reading somewhere that you--
and correct me if I'm wrong--
>> Sure, sure.
>> --utilize Enneagram
as part of this.
>> I have 10 years' knowledge.
I mean, I created an
Enneagram mastery program
and worked with people.
But I'm going to
introduce it later.
>> Oh, I see.
So that's not part of right
now, the 10 dimensions
you're talking about?
>> No.
>> But while you're on
it for just a second,
since we did interview Dr.
Daniels on this as well,
do you care to speak to how
that plays into this when
you're trying to get to raw
truths and you have typologies
that are, say, very compatible
or not too compatible?
>> The typologies aren't
compatible or not.
It's actually the
level of consciousness.
>> Well, yes, that makes sense.
If you're at a high
level of any one of them,
you can break through.
But if you're at
that middle range
or so that most people succumb
to, the traditional traits.
>> I mean, maybe.
I'm not so interested in trying
to have egos fit together well.
>> OK, but I just saw
that Enneagram on there.
So that's not
really part of this?
>> No--
>> But later on--
>> --but later.
I mean--
>> --weave it in.
>> --here's the thing.
My experience with
the Enneagram is
that it's a very subtle
teaching if used correctly.
And so if you really
want to wake up,
there are things that are
just glued to your face
that you just think,
oh, that's me.
And that's a good thing.
You don't realize that it's
an automatic structure that's
actually coming through.
So later, when people are very
awake to that sense of truth,
and really feeling into
things, and they're
getting very good at that, then
it's safe to introduce that.
Because then they
can use it correctly
without laying it
over their experience.
>> I see.
So you really have to have
some self-awareness before that
becomes genuinely useful.
>> I think so.
>> Yeah, that's a
good point to make.
>> That's what I found.
I mean, I've seen
that people can use it
in a way that actually puts
them a little farther away,
instead of a little bit closer.
>> Yeah, I could see
the potential in that.
Definitely.
And let's shift from personal
relationships to the workplace,
because you work across
the spectrum on this.
>> Definitely.
>> And this is important.
Because many businesses, such
as businesses that people
watching this may be
participating in or even
creating, are really
trying to birth
themselves at a higher
level of consciousness.
Yet, you're still dealing with
the fundamental survival--
>> People.
>> --issues.
Yeah, you've got people.
And then you have your business.
If it's a business,
is theoretically there
to make a profit of some kind.
And so how do you work
with people on that level
where there may be
this one super core
issue that's always
there, is, how do we
do this and make a profit?
>> Well, they'd have
to have included--
see this is a way of
relating by agreement,
so you can't just do
this with anybody.
It doesn't work.
>> So your business had better
have partners who are really
on board with the
higher directive.
>> You'd have to understand.
What is an evolutionary
relationship?
What's possible here?
And do we want to take that
on as a part of our ability
to take our business
to another level?
So it doesn't have to do with
the practical collaborative
aspects.
And there are incredible people
in the business world now
that are working with holacracy,
and tribal leadership,
and all these really
cool things that
are really good at taking
people to higher levels,
just on a basic business level.
This would be if you
had a group of people,
particularly that want
to be creative together.
And egos always get in the way
of creativity, unfortunately.
And when it's not
there, that's when
these amazing things happen.
You get a collective
of people that just
do something extraordinary.
>> The people get so
attached to the juice.
>> --extraordinary.
>> Yeah.
And they're attached to
the juice of the thing
that they've come
up, for example,
and hard to get past that
to see someone else's juice
may be equally as
beneficial to the whole.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, you have to get
disinterested in your piece
and more interested
in surrendering
to a collective feel that it
wants to create something.
So it's the same being in truth.
It's the same.
There's certain dynamics
that need to be put in place.
But then there are collective
in the Evolutionary Collective.
In the collective
work that we do,
we have a lot of
leaders, and CEOs,
and people that are doing
major things in the world.
So they're taking how
we're functioning,
and certain exercises, and
certain ways that we're
doing things into the
work that they do.
But we're speaking rarefied.
And I think unless you put
something new on the menu,
people can't order it.
So I'm putting something
new in the menu of, what's
possible in relationship?
I mean, I've worked with
people in Hollywood.
You're in California.
And it's just horrendous.
You have these brilliant
people that come together.
And the egos and the--
I mean, really on a
low level sometimes.
The fact that they could
accomplish anything
that's of merit is amazing.
I mean, it's amazing.
It's a tribute to something.
I don't know what.
But I have a personal desire.
I've been around creative
people all my life--
photographers and artists.
But particularly, people
that do collaborative work,
is I would love to get my
hands on a group of people that
were making a movie
or doing something
creative with at least
20 people and see
if they'd be willing to actually
add this element into it.
Because I think what they could
create would be off the charts.
>> Let me ask you a question.
What about the
younger generation
if you want to use this classic
metaphysical term, so some
of the influx of what
were called Indigos?
But just children of the
generation of our sons
and younger, who are coming
in with a different awareness.
Maybe they've also been raised
differently than we were.
>> Hopefully.
>> Yeah.
But are you seeing any?
First of all, you're
dealing with many
of the younger people.
I mean, they haven't really hit
their stride, power wise yet,
and have the funds to be able
to hire someone to do this,
necessarily.
But are you seeing a difference
generationally at all?
>> They're different in
that they have a collective
consciousness.
>> Yes.
>> It's really--
>> That's what I've noticed.
>> --so cool.
>> It is.
>> That is so cool.
So I've found--
and we have had--
in the work that
I've done, we've
had everything from 28 to 84--
>> OK, so--
>> --which is really--
>> --they're just
hitting that range.
And so this collective
consciousness,
which is theoretically
what the entire planet
is really moving toward--
>> Absolutely.
>> I see this with
Stuart and his friends.
It's absolutely
beautiful to behold,
this sense of wanting
each other to thrive,
instead of competing
with each other.
>> Absolutely.
Yeah, there is something.
This is new.
I've been working with this
level of consciousness,
and the groups, and the
collectives for the last four
years.
And I feel it is a new
consciousness that's
exploding all over the
planet in different ways.
>> Yes.
>> So through the internet,
something is happening through
collaborative-- the Zipcar.
People are sharing things again.
>> Yes, very cool.
>> There's different kinds of
cities that they're building.
And there's all kinds of--
like Eric Whitacre,
the one with the choir.
>> Oh, yes.
>> It's through that--
>> That's beautiful.
>> --virtual thing.
>> Yes, beautiful.
>> And there's all kind
of collective emergences
occurring.
And so we're doing the deep,
inner subjective elements
of it.
How do we break the
membrane of separation?
And what are the ways of
being so that we can still
have our sense of
individuality, our autonomy,
but that we're actually
creating relationships
and collective happenings from a
deep place that's not separate?
So that's my--
I'm busy with that.
>> Yes.
And that was line
of my questioning.
That last question was that as
these younger people come in
with this collective
consciousness,
is it easier for them to
break through those walls
of separation and the
ego to do collaborations?
Maybe a little
easier than it has
been up to this point,
because of the new conscious
supporting it.
>> We haven't gotten there yet
as far as having just a group
of a certain age, going into
some kind of creative venture.
I would love that.
And we're still in the emergent
phases of teaching this.
But I bet it would be different.
>> I think it would.
Well, it doesn't really
matter, it seems here,
whether we're looking at
a personal relationship,
or business relationship,
or social friendships,
that one thing you talk about is
that there has to be something
of a higher purpose.
And just give us an idea of
the variety of areas of life
and our psyche that that
could be referring to.
>> OK, there's two elements
of the higher purpose.
One is-- and many people
are interested in this.
And I think they don't
always look at relationship
as a vehicle for egolessness,
so transcendence, becoming
completely who you are.
Relationship is a
phenomenal vehicle
if you use it correctly.
If you do what
I'm talking about,
you will continue to take
apart those identities,
and those fears, and
those everythings
that keep you not only
separate from another,
but really separate
from yourself.
>> Yes.
>> I mean, really.
So if you're willing to
take that on as a path,
as a way in which to
really unfold oneself.
And you're lucky to have one, or
two, or many other people that
are equally committed.
The Evolutionary Collective,
the work that I do in groups
is that's what everyone
is committed to.
And then we create
this "I" cloud
of relatedness in the
collective field that is also
putting pressure on the ego
itself so that those things are
dissolving, even when we're not
together, which is interesting.
>> That's a good point.
So now, you're talking about
beyond your own intention
and creating this
collective of consciousness
that can work either,
obviously, for or against us.
But this is that quantum
field of relationship
that you speak of.
>> So you have--
there could be you and I
having that together as friends
when we say, OK, let's
see what's possible here.
And we've learned
some ways to do it.
And let's see where
we can go, what
this particular relationship
is for, so instead
of what I think it's for.
Let's see what it
wants to be, instead
of my ideas or your ideas of
what I need from you, right?
>> So on that, you're
the interviewee.
I'm the interviewer.
And you would take that, for
example, and begin exploring,
take those titles away.
And you would begin
exploring with me what
it is that might be there
for our higher participation,
learning, unfolding
on other levels.
>> Creativity.
>> Creativity, all of it.
>> Yeah, so relationships
are to show up like that.
So the second part is--
so it's a possibility
of dissolving your ego
and seeing what's possible
in the relationships
that you're in, where they
can go, what can happen.
Here's the other piece
that I'm really--
what drives me the
most at this point,
having experienced what I
experienced with Peter one
on one.
And 1 plus 1 equaled--
>> Yeah, thousands.
>> I mean, we felt
like millionaires.
We weren't millionaires, but
we felt like millionaires,
like we had this rich
abundance of the universe
at our disposal.
What I feel-- and
Teilhard de Chardin
said this and
[INAUDIBLE] said this.
I found out later.
I was busy going,
wow, if between us, we
were shown this crazy, huge
world of unfoldment, what
if you just got 20 people,
40 people who were relating
correctly, who were
learning and dissolving,
and then we were all in
some web of relationship?
Then what could they do?
It's like, then, what could
descend and arise through us?
Oh, my God.
For me, that's worth my life.
I want that.
We are developing
that at this point.
And I just feel that's
what the universe wants.
It wants to know that if we can
have collectives of people that
are really courageous, and
really willing, and really
ready, have the right
readiness for certain openings,
then what could happen
could be off the charts.
Off the charts.
Talk about leaving Earth to me.
That's my outer space odyssey.
>> Oh, it's beautiful.
>> And I think we
need to find out.
It doesn't have to be everybody.
But I think if we get clumps
of people all over that
are really ready for this.
Because a lot of us
post-modern people
who have done a lot of work
and done this and that,
it's like, OK, time to move on.
Time to stop making
it about you and let's
find out what's
possible together.
>> Yes.
>> And I think we will
forge open some openings
in the cosmos.
And then it will be easier
for those kinds of things
to descend.
And then people can actually
start relating differently.
>> That's very exciting.
In fact, as you're
speaking, I'm thinking
of a few of our
viewers that write
to us on a regular basis, who
we have a bit of a feel for now.
I'm thinking, they're going
to be so excited to hear
you talking about that.
So let's talk about that now.
Anybody who is resonating
with what you're saying,
how do they have a
chance to connect
with you or this larger effort?
And what happens from here?
>> A couple different ways.
So one is if they
want to first just get
a sense of what this
evolutionary relationshipness
is, obviously, we can only
cover a "piece" of it here.
I am doing a virtual course
that starts August 24.
And people will be able to do it
online from all over the world
and at least begin the process
and begin to be immersed in,
like I said, a different way
of orienting oneself and seeing
the possibility
of relationships.
So there's that.
The other thing is
that Jeff Carreira,
who I mentioned to you before,
who's the director of education
for Enlighten Next
with Andrew Cohen,
and who is an amazing man.
I mean, it's like meeting
Peter, only as a teacher.
Do you know what I mean?
We have this incredible
connection as two teachers.
>> Tell me his name once again.
I'll write it down this time.
>> Jeff Carreira.
>> Carreira.
C-A?
>> R-R-E-I-R-A.
>> I-R-A?
OK.
>> Yeah, so we are perfectly
matched master teachers,
really, and have this endless
commitment to working with
the field.
And we're the
perfect demonstration
of what we're teaching.
So we're teaching an
Evolutionary Collective course.
We'll be beginning a new one--
2012 in New York.
>> And now, that's not virtual?
>> That's live.
OK.
>> And then there's lots of
virtual stuff in between that
people will be involved in.
But it will be-- there's a
weekend where people can then
take it a little farther.
And then if they're
ready to go, they say,
OK, I really want
to do this, then
there's a year where
they meet three times
for three and a half days
each with virtual connection
in between.
And we're experimenting with--
the in-person part, I
think, is essential.
There's no way around that.
>> Ooh, I think I have
someone in mind for you--
>> No way around that.
>> --from New York.
>> And then the virtual part--
we'll have some virtual one
days, where people
can collect together.
And then everyone is connected,
is there is an "I" cloud.
There's like the--
what did we call it?
We called it the awakened
culture cloud of that group.
>> Oh, yes.
>> And actually, you feel
connected all the time.
The way we build it, you
feel this looping between you
and it, and it and you.
And that's the coolest part.
Because when people
start to feel that,
something changes in
your life forever.
>> And that's that quantum
field of relationship--
>> Absolutely.
>> --that you refer to often.
Yeah.
>> And we build that together
in the Evolutionary Collective.
And there are leaders,
and change agents,
and awesome people.
It's attracting the edge
people, the 1% of the people
that love doing stuff.
So that's the opportunity
at the moment.
>> Very cool.
Anything else?
We'll tell people how to get a
hold of you at the end of this.
Any other final thoughts?
This has been wonderful.
>> Yeah.
Oh, there's one other thing.
We do a radio show.
So there's a free opportunity
to stay in the conversation
until people are
sufficiently inspired.
>> Yeah, very good.
>> But final thoughts?
To me, it's love.
I mean, it really is
about what's possible,
bringing heaven
on Earth, bringing
what we can bring at this
point as human beings together.
And there is a joy.
There's incredible joy in that.
And I do feel it
fits into your work--
>> Oh, absolutely.
>> --because you're
always on the edge.
>> Yes.
>> You know what I'm saying?
>> That is so true.
>> Ooh, am I going to get
in trouble if I do this?
Right?
>> Always.
>> Which I deeply respect.
>> Thank you.
And I deeply enjoy.
>> Oh, you couldn't do
it any other way, right?
>> No.
No.
>> So this is the edge
in a certain domain.
And so-- yeah.
>> Well, thank you so much
for your time, Patricia.
>> Thank you.
>> I've loved talking with you.
>> Again, as Patricia mentioned,
she has weekend and ongoing
workshops for people to gather
and challenge themselves
to find the courage to tell
their own deepest truths.
You can reach her
through her website
at evolutionarycollective.com.
Until next time, thanks
for watching "CMN."
[MUSIC PLAYING]